Hello, my name is Charles Severance.
I'm a Clinical Professor at
the University of Michigan
School of Information,
and I'm your instructor
for this course.
This course is a
little different than
every programming
course that I've
ever taught, or I've ever taken.
This course is dedicated to
the notion that
every single person
on the planet needs
to be able to write
programs and can write programs.
You do not have to
have a bunch of math.
I do not expect math.
I do not expect that you've taken
any other programming classes.
I don't expect you know
anything about computers.
I think no matter
what your background
is, you can program.
That's why it's called
Programming for
Everybody. I have
a couple of goals.
Certainly, I want to
teach you how to program.
But actually what I
really want to do
is teach you how to take
a programming class
because it turns out that most of
the other programming classes
in the world are kind of difficult.
They sort of assume way too
much and the teachers sort of
don't even realize how much
they're expecting from students.
So when you're done
with this class,
you can go and take
another beginning class.
And that way you have this as an
on-ramp to all of your
programming activity.
And so I'm really excited
that you're here.
Another thing that I
want to do is I want
to teach you how to be a mentor.
I want to teach you how to
be a teacher of programming.
So I want you to
take all my ideas,
and I want to you to
help the next person.
And the reason is that
learning how to program
is a little sort of foggy,
uncomfortable, you
get stuck on things,
and those things aren't
hard, I assure you.
But when you're stuck on them,
they feel really hard.
And the best way to get unstuck
is get some help from somebody.
And if they're sitting
right next to you,
and they can go, "Oh look.
You've just got to like add
two spaces and it's fine."
And you're like, "Oh, that
saved me a lot of time."
So I want you to be willing
to help somebody else.
Another thing that's
important to me is
that I want to create
more teachers.
Whether they're at universities,
or community colleges,
or high schools, or
even middle schools,
or in professional situations.
I have given you all of
the materials for
this course at a website.
They're all licensed
under Creative Commons,
the slides, the autograders.
I want you to in a sense
adopt this textbook,
and then use
my teaching kit so that
you can become a teacher
of this material,
because I don't think that I'm
naturally the only
teacher of this.
And in particular, if you don't
speak English as
your first language,
you might want to teach
this class in
your native language.
And so that's another reason
that I give you
these materials with
a free and open copyright
that you can take them,
you can translate them
into your language.
The book has been translated
into several languages.
And that's really exciting.
Those books that have
been translated are
usually free and available.
You can get print copies
that are very
inexpensive and
all the ecopies are free.
And so this notion that
I create this kit,
that you can then change the kit.
You don't have to
just take my class.
You can change it and you can
make it work for you locally.
And really, the overall
goal of this is
more than just like teaching
you one programming class.
I think that the entire
technology marketplace, and
to some degree all of business in
general is becoming
increasingly technical.
And too many people, young, old,
regardless of education,
are shut out of
this sort of club where you
need to know something
about technology.
And so that's why we're
Programming for Everybody.
Regardless of geography,
regardless of ability to pay,
regardless of if you
have any disabilities,
I want Programming for
Everybody to be everybody.
I want when to just expand
forever the number of
people who are capable
of programming.
It's an open
self-sustaining ecosystem,
and have you be part of
that self-sustaining ecosystem.
So again, welcome to the class.
I look forward to what
you do and I look
forward to seeing you
throughout the class.